So in the last lecture we created this post gallery with the Gutenberg editor. But then we did not have any sliders
here like we expected. And that's because gallery is created in Gutenberg are created differently than
the old editor. And get_post_gallery() function
will only work for the classic editor.
So in this lecture we will create another content-gallery file and this one will be if you want to
support the Gutenberg editor.
So let's copy this and let's rename this one to maybe classic.
So this one will not be used now just have it here for reference.
And let's create a new file here and call it content-gallery. And let's paste.
Another problem is get_post_gallery is not working, right?
So open some PHP tags here and let's try a function.
Let's var_dump() and let's try a function called gutenberg_parse_blocks(). And it takes the content, so get_the_content().
And let's see what this will return.
And judging by the name it should return all the blocks in our post.
So let's see.
Looks like we actually forgot to add the post type "Gallery" here but it wouldn't make any difference.
Still the get_post_gallery() function will not work.
So just to make sure let's remove this
and refresh. And as you can see this now has a  gallery post format.
And we still don't have a slider right.
So let's return this var_dump().
So now we have an array because we have one block and the block name is core/gallery.
And then we have attributes NULL and we have inner HTML. And the inner HTML contains our gallery.
Right?
So let's just to add some more blocks.
Maybe add some text here.
And refresh. And now I've array of three.
I don't know why three but we have our gallery and we have
I don't know, some empty block here.
But anyways.
And then we have our paragraph which is called "core/paragraph".
So anyways we need to loop through this array and once we find a gallery we'll save it into a variable.
And then carry on and do the same thing we did for the get_post_gallery().
The only difference here is we don't have any information about the images, the IDs and stuff like that.
We just have the HTML for the gallery. So to support Gutenberg
we'll just put this HTML in the instead of the slider. Because now we are not able to create
a slider. So let's copy the name of this block.
And let's here call this $blocks.
And let's loop through it. So "foreach ($blocks as $block)". And let's create another variable called $gallery and let's set
it to maybe "false" or "null".
And now whenever we find, so the keys called "blockName", so if $block of "blockName" is equals to "core/gallery",
we will set this $gallery variable to this $block.
Right?
And maybe after that we can also break out of the loop because we only need the first gallery. So we
don't have to continue in the loop.
We already found one.
Let's now var_dump() the gallery and see if we have any mistakes in this loop.
So it's "core/gallery", I think I made a mistake.
We need the whole block and not just the "blockName". So now we've the gallery block in this $gallery
variable.
And now we can use this $gallery variable instead of the get_post_gallery().
Right?
So let's change these to $gallery.
And then instead of this loop we will just echo the $gallery and then the "innerHTML" for the gallery.
Right?
So I'm using the MAMP port
that's why it's not automatically refreshing.
Let's use. And as you can see we still have a little problem with our initializing the Slick Slider on this post gallery.
But we don't need to do that anymore.
So let's call this "gallery" maybe "-gutenberg".
And now we have a gallery as a featured content for this post.
So maybe that's not what you need maybe you need a slider like we did for the old editor. But right now
for Gutenberg that's the only available options.
I think by the time maybe they will add more options to allow more control for these galleries.
But for now I think that's fine.
And I think that's all what you need to do for post formats.
So let me know if you have any questions in the Q&A for any for any lecture.
And let's now move on to another topic in the next section.
A quick note here.
I just noticed something after ending this lecture.
If you go to the gallery settings you can have a switch here.
"Crop Images" and you can choose not to crop images. So the images will have their natural aspect ratio.
And let's update that and then let's go here. And let's inspect the image.
And as you can see WordPress will load the full image size.
So this not resized and each gallery item is inside an LI,
inside a UL called "wp-block-gallery",
right?
So why don't we try and copy this ID, the "gallery-gutenberg".
And let's add another selector here. It will be the "gallery-gutenberg" and then we need to initialize Slick on this.
UL, right?
So let's try this.
And we actually have a slider also.
So great.
We created the same gallery with Gutenberg.
So I just thought I should tell you that and if any update happens to Gutenberg I will also keep you
updated.
So see you in the next section.